.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.\"
.\" test with nroff -man debian/uuidtrip.1 > /tmp/man.txt; less /tmp/man.txt
.TH uuidtrip 1 "May  17, 2013"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
uuidtrip \- generate universally unique identifiers (RFC 4122)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuidtrip \fR[\fIoptions...\fR]
.\"
.\" ==========================================================================
.\" ============= DESCRIPTION ================================================
.\" ==========================================================================
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uuidtrip 
generates and prints universally unique identifiers version 3, 5
(name based with MD5, SHA-1 hashing) and 4 (random based)
according to RFC 4122.
.B uuidtrip
provides command line access for most functions of the Uuidm
library.
.\"
.\" ==========================================================================
.\" ================ Options =================================================
.\" ==========================================================================
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\" ========== -r output a random based UUID version 4 (default).
.IP "-r"
Generate a random based UUID version 4. This is the default.
.\" ========== -ns <uuid> namespace UUID for name based UUIDs 
.IP "-ns \fIuuid\fR"
set the name space for version 3 and version 5 name based UUID's
(options 
.B -md5
and 
.B -sha1\fR).
The default is the DNS namespace.
.\" ========== -name <name> name for name based UUIDs
.IP "-name \fIname\fR"
set the name for version 3 and version 5 name based UUID's
(options 
.B -md5
and 
.B -sha1\fR).
The default is
.I www.example.org\fR.
.\" ========== -md5 output a MD5 name based UUID version 3.
.IP "-md5"
Generate an MD5 name based UUID version 3. 
.\" ========== -sha1 output a SHA-1 name based UUID version 5.
.IP "-sha1"
Generate an SHA-1 name based UUID version 5.
.\" ========== -u output hexadecimal letters in uppercase.
.IP "-u"
Output the generated UUID as string with uppercase letters
(default is lowercase letters).
.\" ========== -b output result in binary.
.IP "-b"
Output the generated UUID as raw bytes (binary).
.\" ========== -help  Display this list of options
.IP "-help"
Print the list of options and exit
.\" ================ --help ==================================================
.IP --help
Alias for
.B -help
.\"
.\" ==========================================================================
.\" ================ SEE ALSO ================================================
.\" ==========================================================================
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
RFC 4122
.TP
API documentation at \fI/usr/share/doc/libuuidm-ocaml-dev/html/
.\"
.\" ==========================================================================
.\" ================ Author ==================================================
.\" ==========================================================================
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Daniel C. Buenzli <daniel.buenzl i@erratique.ch> is the author of
.B uuidtrip
and Uuidm. This manual page was written
by Hendrik Tews <hendrik@askra.de>,
specifically for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
